I want the slow, painful, hard work to
be rewarded. Not not the [__]
>> This idea that we have to piggyback on
top of GitHub. I I think everybody's
rejecting that increasingly. Companies
don't want to spend $250,000 per
engineer.
Okay, so welcome back to State of
Agentic Coding number six. I don't think
we're going to hit the 10,00 episode
milestone that syntax hit. I'm just
going to throw that out there.
>> I don't think the AI engineering bubble
will last that long.
>> So, look on this on this podcast. What
do we talk about, Armen?
>> We're talking about agentic engineering.
>> Vibe coding. I don't know.
>> Vibe engineering. My name is Ben
Vinegar. I work at a startup called
modem. Used to work with Armen uh for a
long time at a company called Sentry
where we did software observability.
modem is
I'm I'm beginning to think about it
more. Humor me as a you know, we have
like coding agent harnesses.
I believe it's a product agent and I
don't know. I'm going to explore this to
see if that makes any sense whatsoever.
I didn't see any reaction for you, so
maybe it's going to go back into the
box. Um, but we help people do like
product work, not coding work. Armen,
what's uh who are you? What are you
doing here?
>> Hi, my name is Armen. [laughter] I now
work for a company called Arendelle that
I started with a friend of mine and we
are building
AI products for humans. [laughter]
I don't want to be too specific because
like one of the products that we have is
is Leos which is an agent that sits in
email which where we're trying to build
something that sort of a normie can use.
Um and then we now also have Pi which is
a coding agent. So it's like an umbrella
company of two products. I can talk
about that later.
>> We we're going to come back to Pi.
Although I I do want to take a moment
that if you watched this is episode six
and if you I feel like if you went back
to episode one, you could basically
follow the story of how much you know
Armen increasingly loves Pi down to the
point that you know it's now part of his
company. [laughter]
>> Exactly.
If you love something a lot then you
have to go after it. That's basically
what happened.
>> Okay, we're going to get into
predictions in a moment, but we wanted
to touch on really quickly the fact that
there were two major AI engineering
conferences. AI engineer Europe, let's
say that that's the most major one.
Armor was over there. And then just a
few weeks later, there was AI engineer
Miami. I happened to be there. I guess I
just wanted to touch on this because
this is an AI,
you know, AI engineering agent coding
podcast. I feel like we should
acknowledge that we are
>> Yep.
Well, we're at the the one conference
[laughter]
if it feels like it's the one
conference.
Quite frankly, I don't think there's
another engineering conference that
matters [laughter]
>> so far.
>> You [clears throat] know, by the way, it
did feel like one conference in the
sense of content almost now just kind of
continuously coming out because there's
AI engineer
Europe and then Miami and then I think
San Francisco World Fair and and then
they're going to have New York. There's
a lot of these now to the degree that
just like content is kind of like coming
out all the time and it feels a little
continuous. I don't know if that if
you're you meant that comment or not.
>> So I think what the conference does
really really well is um it uses a very
I mean it's not super consistent but
like it uses a sort of relatively
consistent format and all the talks are
also relatively quickly on the internet
and they're streamed. So even if you
don't go to a conference I think you
actually have something from it. Um and
and Swix does an excellent job at
running it. So I think like even as far
as like other programming commercial
conferences go, this one is surprisingly
well done, I would say.
>> Yeah, I think it's pretty good too. And
I um my first experience was World's
Fair last year and that was like a real
eye opener for really this whole field
at the time. I do credit Swix, this is
Sean Sean Wang for popularizing AI
engineering. I think he does deserve I
think that's fair and correct. Do you
agree?
>> Yeah. and also in like I think ways that
go beyond the conference like the the
podcast that he's doing and everything.
It's definitely has given some sort of
legitimacy to the pipe. I I found it
really interesting like AI engineer
Europe I think was like a thousand
something people is my guess. It was it
was pretty
>> Oh, yeah.
>> pretty filled. And I think as far as
like Europeans go, obviously there were
a bunch of Americans too, but like as
far as Europeans go, um sort of the the
attitude towards um AI engineering, I
think it feels quite a bit different
than uh than in San Francisco. I
wouldn't say it's like less energetic,
but I think there's always there's a
little bit more balance to it in part
also because obviously Europe doesn't
have great like model companies. Um, and
so I found some of the conversations
really really engaging and sort of un I
mean more surprising I would say than
like AI meetups in San Francisco or like
even AI meetups in Vienna. Um, so yeah
was it was quite grounding actually in
many ways and then after Mario's talk
and my talk a bunch of people walked up
and said like oh this is really nice
that you're giving some balanced input.
Um [snorts] maybe this is just selection
bias but yeah I was surprised um in a
way was it was much more down to earth I
think than some AI meetups are. Also I
would say the the the age of the
attendees was old older than I expected.
>> By the way really quickly can you
explain what that talk was? you know,
we'll link to it, but just like, you
know,
>> so Mario Mario basically gave a talk on
why PI exists and how it is to run an
open source project in um in an AI
adjacent space that's full of machines
putting pull requests up and how painful
that is. And the talk that I gave over
Christina was basically one about like
how we put more friction into the
engineering process so that we can
actually still understand the code. Um,
and I think both of those talks had
something kind of similar going for
them. And because I messed up, it was
actually really funny. My Christina and
my talk was supposed to be at the end of
the last day, so the closing keynote,
but I messed up my flight. And when we
um when when we announced that we
acquired Pi, Swix wrote me, "Oh, you
should have told me. I would have moved
the talks together."
>> And then I was joking. And I said, "No,
it's fine." [laughter] And then jokingly
on the day before of the talk I was like
ah I will I will see if I can run to the
airplane tomorrow. Um and I was like I
was like this this will probably not
work. And then overnight Sean moved the
talks together [laughter] last minute
because I think he wanted Mario Mars and
my talk and Christina's talk to be like
next to each other. I mean I confirmed
it afterwards that he can move it but it
was I think he took the opportunity a
little bit to to to put them back to
back. Um, so that wasn't intentional
that that those were like Mario
submitted his talk proposal prior to
even us uh coming up with our talk
proposal. It just happened to be on a
very similar topic.
>> Stuff comes together last minute often
at conferences. I think there's a lot of
moving variables that people don't
always see. I actually participated in
two talks. You know, that was fun. While
I was in I was very privileged to um get
to chat with Sonel Pi from Cloudflare
and Max Dorber who you originally
introduced me to a long time ago uh from
OpenAI today and the panel we you know
we were being interviewed uh by Eric
from code rabbit uh about taste. I guess
that the setting was like, "Hey, all of
you have worked on sort of like
developer SDKs and experiences and how
much does taste factor into you building
today, right?" And then I had a talk
which was about how I'd sort of moved a
lot to working with remote agents over
SSH and that that was honestly driving a
lot of you know my GitHub contributions
which we've talked about on this show
and I wanted to share some of that
experience and I had a bit of a preamble
of sort of like you know well I'm not
somebody who runs things in the cloud
continuously but I you know I I I do
slow down and one of them is that I
can't walk around and crack the laptop
open all the time. Like that was a real
kind of antidote. Uh which is funny cuz
I feel like there's you see a lot of
that talk now online. My takeaway by the
way when you go to these conferences, I
don't know if this is true for you, but
I think it is. I think for this stuff
right now, it's incredibly valuable
because it's changing so fast and the
value of being able to get into a room
with a whole bunch of people who are
kind of at the bleeding edge of this,
right? whether you whether you learn it
from the talks or you get the chance to
talk to people, which you often do, just
to see where everybody's at, you know,
and to kind of share notes and to learn
what everybody's working on and and
where they're struggling and where
they're not. I find that just so
incredibly valuable thoughts.
>> Yeah, I mean the the hallway track is
always the most interesting for sure and
and and that continues to be the case
for me. I think a lot of the topics for
me at this conference was just like it
is continues to be like surprising I
mean surprising not I guess we got used
to it but it continues to be reinforced
to me how most of the things that we're
all learning are just they have a shelf
life of a month very few things actually
sort of really stick around I mean I
think it was maybe less so at AI
engineer because I think everything was
kind of fresh but I was at another AI
event just a month earlier when you go
to an AI event and the talks are
sponsored
Then in part, someone just sells you
their AI company in a way. Some of which
no longer feel all that sexy. [laughter]
So it's always kind of interesting
because it moves so quickly. Here's a
thought. I remember if I went back a
year to the World's Fair. There were so
many AI products. So many AI products.
There's arguably way more today.
However, when it came to people
presenting, it didn't feel that way. And
maybe it could just be because Claude
does 90% of it, you know? I don't know
if that's true. I don't know if I'm just
like talking, you know, if I'm just like
making that up, but or it could just be
that it was, you know, World's Fair was
so gigantic. I don't I don't know that
could really compare the two.
>> So, the first thing I think we should
talk about is we talked about RAM prices
and and I think we sort of I don't know
who took the up and who took the down on
like is it going to increase, but now we
know it went further up.
>> Can I even just set the stage? I'm
assuming not everybody's saw the last
episode. So, we look we That was a long
episode. We meandered all over the place
and we were talking about the fact that
compute has you know compute and
resources and tokens we'll come back to
tokens you know to be in software right
now there's a real kind of gap between
how you know what you can achieve with a
lot more resources and it feel it felt
like that gap was widening and that's
when I was like well do you think it's
actually going to get worse is it going
to get more expensive that's that's what
we were predicting you took down maybe
relative to USD I think was your
asterisk like maybe the price will go up
but the US dollar will depreciate so um
does that make it more expensive or less
expensive like
>> well for you said like if you if you
compare it to gold prices [laughter]
>> okay
>> so what's RAM and gold today
>> that's funny by the way we should
actually let's let's vibe generate a
website which is just tracking RAM
versus the price of gold maybe RAM is
like a better better hard commodity
going forward I cuz cuz I gen I did pull
up some charts and answer I was looking
at this really curious. I was curious.
This is in Canadian dollars. So I'm I'm
acknowledging that dollar fluctuation
may uh make this very questionable. But
quick observation which is like the
highest density or like the fast the
fastest and highest density like RAM
dims or whatever like 64 128 they are
getting more expensive. I think I think
256 gigs went up. All right, Ben.
Question
>> question. When we recorded the last
episode, was the straight of Hamus open
or closed, [laughter]
>> you know, because like today in the
morning, I read this thing where it's
like, oh, here's some other things are
going to be expensive because Helium is
expensive and and like we're now getting
to the point where like where that stuff
is now getting more expensive. So, I'm
just kind of wondering now, will it go
even further up? Because
>> if it was closed, it was at the very
beginning of it. I think certainly the
conflict had begun, but you're right. I
Yeah, oil, etc.
And like I I don't want to be here
talking about like dim sizes or
whatever, you know.
>> I'm just saying like if if I said it was
going down and didn't yet [laughter]
assume we're going to have yet another
conflict that might make chips more
expensive.
>> Well, I did say I was very cynical and
so the price would go up for that
reason. All right. Anyways, oh, but this
is one thing, one consequence was hard
drives are getting expensive. Like I
think I think this is worth talking
about which is this just you know we all
know how GPUs got expensive because of
crypto and then they got expensive
because of AI right and then RAM got
expensive because we could we could sort
of connect that to AI and now hard
drives specifically like SSD NVMe drives
are getting expensive and that's a more
recent phenomenon. They've gotten really
expensive and look I'm not tracking the
news on this. It's mostly like one day
I'm downloading a bunch of LLMs
and I'm like, "Oh, I should probably get
some more hard drive space and I and I
go online and I'm, you know, shocked
Pikachu face to to how expensive it is."
And that's when I start digging into
like how much this had actually spiked
in price like pretty dramatically. So,
I'm wondering one, what is your take on
this? It seems like an AI it's it's an
AI after effect, right? I'm just curious
like do you understand cuz I don't or
like you know I could come up with some
[__] answer but you know what are
hard drives more expensive or why tokens
more
>> yeah hard drives
>> I mean so all I know is that I I listen
to this um Bloomberg Daybreak something
like sometimes when I cycle in the
morning to work I'm like economic
whatever morning show and part of the
conversation was that well by the way
like 35% of helium coming from from the
Middle East and helium is important for
semiconductor manufacturing and so like
as that sort of all clogs up the like
manufacturing will get even more
expensive and the other thing is like as
gas and oil prices go up power prices
also go up right so there seems to be
just a lot of reasons why this stuff is
going to get more expensive in the
meantime NVME chips in particular I
think like anything that is sort of like
very obviously useful for like prompt
caching sort of like dump a whole bunch
of GPU on disk like the more agents they
are the more important the caching of
stuff is going to be presumably the more
people are going to buy that [__] out.
It just seems somewhat natural right now
that there will be more of a demand for
like not just the GPUs but also the
whole supply for it. Prompt caching in
particular I think is is a huge thing
all of a sudden because like even the
for a while if you were not entropic and
openi you didn't actually see that much
atic traffic to your inference systems
because like most of this was just here
please answer this question in context
of this retrieve document and all of a
sudden now it's like okay they're
hitting you repeatedly with over and
over and over and over longer sessions
and so now even if you're like a small
player in the space that wants to surf
up the GPUs you kind I want to get this
caching stuff going. So that to me makes
a ton of sense. So it will get more
expensive for a while. I think
>> I just want to comment that was a great
answer. Like that was very educational.
Thank you Armen. And at the risk of
dragging this out early prediction ear I
would love for you to make an early just
a quick early prediction. You know since
we saw like these sort of different
different pieces of compute go up in
price. What's going to be the next one?
>> You mean more hardware that will go up
in price?
>> Yeah. when just saying like you know
starting going from GPU to RAM to
storage like
>> it's a good question. I mean I mean I'm
guessing it's just generally the cost of
energy will go up and so maybe that's
not really a hardware thing but so for
instance uh I think like Caterpillar
stock went up like crazy because people
figured out that you got to dig a bunch
of stuff to build more data centers,
right? So presumably at one point we're
going to run out of like I don't know
manufacturing equipment to build data
centers. I think we're reaching that
point, right?
>> [laughter]
>> or just the full the full thing, right?
Like motherboards and computers because
we just want to shove those into we want
to show those into data centers so
there's none left.
>> Well, I don't know because like those
are like kind of like sort of like it's
not like you're shoveling like a
computer into the data center, right?
It's like it's mostly like the whole
H200 whatever these things are called
these days like this they're fully
wrecked up machines but like I think
it's going to be like concrete and
[laughter]
whatever else you need to actually build
these things. I hear you on the um AI
inference training right compute but
also I think just the if you subscribe
to this idea that agents are going to be
all over the place they all need
computers to live in I think that's
driving some too but we can come back to
that
>> yeah maybe could be like there's a
question if the generally the cloud
prices are also going to rise I think
because like even the the access
patterns are different u but I don't
know man I don't know
>> speaking of strange access patterns do
Frontier Labs keep models back because
they might be discovering too many
vulnerabilities. That was something we
talked about and then at the same time
you highlighted like it doesn't even
matter like even with today's models you
could discover a ton of vulnerabilities
and that was recorded and potentially
released before mythos was sort of
revealed really quick. What was the
mythos thing like super high level? So,
somewhere between the recording of last
episode and now, Entropic announced this
myth thing that as of recording has not
been released to the wider world, except
it sort of leaked to some random Discord
group seemingly, but a lot more
vulnerabilities have been found anyways
by people not using. I think we talked
last time briefly about that if you
build yourself a nice little harness for
finding security vulnerabilities,
they're getting pretty good at this. So
what has actually happened in the
meantime is that people built more
harnesses to find vulnerabilities and I
think the most interesting one that came
out in between uh that in part has been
copy fail which is a basically zero day
is I don't know if it's a zero day but
it's like basically root execution like
gaining root access on Linux machines
[snorts] and I found that particularly
interesting because obviously it was
very clearly found with AI assistance
and they have admitted as much but
[snorts] als Also the post that is the
technical announcement of it was very
LLM supported
and because it was that and there was a
there was clearly some mistakes in there
for that talked about Redhead Linux 14.3
which doesn't exist. The first couple of
comments that came in after that dropped
were like oh this is just a metal
generated blah. [laughter]
So the the immediate response of a bunch
of people was like, "Uh, doesn't matter.
It's just slop." And they're like, "Oh,
holy [__] It actually gives you
reflexes." So there's this really
interesting thing right now is like
simultaneously there's a lot of like
they slop finds vulnerabilities. It's
still slop, but it finds vulnerabilities
which are critical. And so it doesn't
really help us to have a response to it
that is like, "Oh, it's just AI generate
nonsenses. It's still the vulnerability.
I don't know what to tell you.
So, it's just very interesting. Right
now, David from Sentry released this
Warden thing, which is his own harness
to find security vulnerabilities.
Cal.com decided they're going to use the
opportunity to just close source because
they feel like being open source these
days makes it too easy to find issues. I
don't know.
>> By the way, Adam, yeah, I I obviously
follow David um David Kermit Centry. He
used to be our boss. Warden,
would you call that a harness or a
system built around a harness?
>> It's definitely a harness uh in the
sense that I think it uses the cloth
code SDK to uh which I guess is is sort
of the the version one of the harness,
but it's it basically runs uh the loop
itself with loading some special skills
into it. Um and then sort of more or
less automatically try to find all kinds
of security issues. So you basically
just run it like an agent. What I do
know is that David highlighted that it
found I think he said like a hundred
vulnerabilities in Sentry which is
source available. source available is
not quite open source but you can read
it and so this it kind of connects to
the the
>> and in a in 14 years of AI time which is
two years [laughter]
it is going to be Apache to licensed so
it is on the way to open source
>> it's continuously
>> continuously continuously
>> right there are many versions of open
source centry right out there right now
so one that's interesting to me because
that team has always had access to
claude
Right. They have a lot of engineers
there. I don't know, 200 engineers
possibly. David more or less, you know,
fuse this up with a bunch of skills and
with this sort of vulnerability
discovery harness just like goes to town
and finds like a hundred things. Is that
like a that is that the state of the
affairs which is like yeah, if you
really guide these things to find
vulnerabilities not to rehash this
thing, not to rehash this too much like
>> Yeah. But um I think this is exactly
what's happening. And to be clear, like
he didn't just build this in the last
couple of days. I think he built Warden
already in like January or something,
but it became better and better over
time. Um and I think generally the
awareness of how in part a lot of just
like understanding like what everybody
else is also going to do like
theoretically a lot of these models were
really good at finding vulnerabilities
in November or October. I don't know
like Opus 4 or five is is equally
capable of finding this stuff, right?
And the first time I I sort of saw at
scale people talking about the security
thing was like around Christmas when um
at the case computer club congress there
was um someone demonstrating this and
there's more and more of it. The the
openi hackathon so the codex hackathon
that was in Vienna where I was a judge
uh there was also a team that did a
capture the flag kind of vulnerability
thing. It's all over the place now. So,
in part, I think it's just people waking
up to some of the capabilities that are
in the models, but they maybe haven't
been so communicated so widely.
>> It's scary. So, last kind of like we're
just kind of wrapping up the
predictions. Um, and but predictions are
just kind of things to get us talking.
Another thing that came up was do you
think we're going to lock down more like
within within engineering organizations?
Are we gonna see companies sort of, you
know, mandate certain coding agents and
models,
right? For any number of reasons is what
we were talking about. But, you know,
now there's there could be more reasons
now. One of which is token spend. I
guess the way I'm doing this is because
I'm just kind of like rehashing the
comments and I'm just like tossing the
the mic over to you. Are we locking down
more? Did you know I don't even think we
I think I said yes but maybe it's going
to be months away but I guess this
turned out to be a monthly
>> I I don't know like to which degree this
is already happening but we have some
evidence of like team standardizing on
things in kind of interesting ways. I
will also say like I think we should
have a separate conversation later on on
like the token pricing itself and sort
of like like what some providers might
or might not be doing. But for instance,
um since we now have according
harnessers in the company, uh we also
get to talk a little bit to some of the
people that are using it. And if you are
a large enough enterprise that uses API
pricing and you're not using
subscriptions, then all of a sudden cash
efficiency really matters. And if
someone rolls out um at scale a bad
scale or extension, then everybody's
token spent goes through the roof. And
if you're not a believer into token
maxing, but you're a believer into
responsible, I don't know, budgeting,
then you kind of want to know about
this, right? And you want to understand
this better. And so they everybody runs
whatever they want to have
is actually in some companies already no
longer
what they want to do. They might still
be at that stage, but they want to clamp
down. So I think it's uh it's starting.
It's definitely starting. So
translation, companies don't want to
spend $250,000 per engineer.
Is is that fair? [laughter]
>> Yeah. I mean, like that's like look just
to circle back a little bit to AI
engineer. I think it was very very funny
that um on the I think on the day before
Mario or maybe it was on the same day as
Mario I forgot there was a talk by an
open eye engineer was like just don't
worry about the token spend [laughter]
just let give more agency to the agent
and then the talk by Mario was like oh
it's just like it's all about efficiency
and like thinking and like [laughter]
so like the the incentives couldn't be
any different between the providers and
the users that actually have to pay for
this This is also a really good
indicator of this growing divide,
you know, like like a little bit of like
let them eat cake. I I you know what?
You don't got $250,000 laying around. Um
you know, if you're worth a trillion
dollars or you've got $200 billion in
funding, that is a you know, just
speaking to Nvidia and OpenAI. Yeah,
that's a trivial concern for you. You're
probably like, "Yeah, but please do it."
And also, conveniently, you know, you're
spending that money on us.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Okay. Um, so, you know, but companies
actually don't want to do that,
including reasonably wealthy companies,
I would add. Just maybe not quite so
wealthy. anything to add on that or
>> Yeah, I mean I think there's a general
growing understanding in some companies
that are fiscally responsible that they
probably don't want to create an
engineering workforce that is fully
dependent on dishing out a ton of money
to some other company with no
negotiation power. So [laughter] we have
reached that point I would say. [snorts]
So the the token maxing from January got
old really quickly. I feel like this the
last few weeks have been a moment where
I'm call I I'm calling it the end of
subsidies.
It's not like really truly the end. Like
clearly things are still subsidized but
it feels like the beginning of the end.
How about that? Where one there's just
so many indicators on this. Let's take
let's talk about the biggest one. Claude
Code doesn't support OpenClaw and for
example they took away Opus from or
they're starting to experiment with
taking away opus from some of their
cheaper like $20 a month plans. That's a
whole topic. I want to continue this.
So, right. So, that's getting clamped
down and now is like even a topic last
couple days because now now Claude
people have discovered that there's
certain phrases that if you're on like a
max plan, Claude might reject and charge
you per token. uh people are discovering
that there's sort of like I don't know
some discrimination on like basically
your prompt. So that's one thing I'm
noticing in a lot of SAS products like
some of which we use there's they're
switching from seatbased pricing and
sort of like um you know you get a seat
some amount of compute goes with that.
That was fine when you know you had half
your company paying per seat and they
weren't actually using it or we found
some way to make it work but it's not
working anymore. So a lot of those a lot
of that pricing is moving to like per
I'll give you an example. Grapile
grapile is a code review tool. We use
it. I like it. There's so many of these.
They switched to per use. Look, our bill
went up, I think, like five times, you
know, like maybe we're paying1 150
something like that a month. And I think
I just got the bill and it's like, hey,
surprise, $800, right? Look, am I
getting a ton of value out of that?
Could I rationally agree that I'm I'm
getting like a AI code reviewer and
maybe that's worth, you know, 10 grand a
year, right? Well, multiply that for
every product you've you've got that is
touching AI. It gets really expensive
really fast. Do you agree with that?
>> Yeah. I mean I have so many thoughts
about the economics in the space because
on the one hand a lot of it is like
clearly valuable. On the other hand, we
will not pay all those companies per use
unless because like think back about
like what the what the economics were
about like SAS businesses for a really
long time which was like well because
they the the most of the cost here
presumably is like running
infrastructure. We are happy with them
having great margins because it's still
actually going to be more expensive to
for us to run our own show.
So like there that was actually like in
some sense it was a win-win transaction
to to to use SAS business as a sort of
the last super cycle but now like what
actually like there are no margins
really they're very small margin like
some some people have the margins right
so like the the people that run
inference look pretty healthy margins
but like everybody downstream from that
doesn't have anything so where is the
value here particularly if you have the
sort of like I can build my own reptile
in an afternoon because it sitting on a
model anyways and then I have just like
my own gateway and I'm just being token
efficient and I just like I don't know
it to me it seems like there's there's
I'm not saying like no nobody's going to
make any money in there and there's
people are definitely going to make
money in there but shit's getting
expensive way too quick and I'm cycling
out of products just because I don't
it's like it doesn't make any sense for
me to pay that much money for something
that my agent can reasonably do itself
>> what I want to say is I value the
service layer that companies bring to
this and I don't actually want to like
generate and maintain my own services
again like and then multiply that for
everything you have that's not strictly
an attachment to G reptile speaking of
which you should ask them to sponsor us
for this episode for how many times
we've mentioned their name GPL
it's a dinosaur [laughter]
it is fair to say that that price
increase has caused us to be like oh
maybe I will shop around again right and
I guess I'm calling it it feels feels
like a bit of an unwinding where people
are sort of ending their subsidies or it
may not be so much ending their
subsidies. Like it can, but it can also
just be that the amount of usage that we
are all driving is going up higher and
do not support the pricing models that
maybe made sense 6 months ago. There are
a bunch of things that I uh sort of know
is like AP AI products that are like say
like a year and a half old which started
with basically the following approach.
Here's some rack, here's some data
retrieval and now here is some
post-processing on it. That shit's cheap
to run. But if everybody else has an
agent, then those companies also have to
build an agent and the agent is no
longer cheap to run. And so as you have
more and more companies going on the
well now is should do tool calling and
all that kind of stuff train they can no
longer offer the pricing model it had
previously which scaled to some degree
with the number of humans attached to
it. The other really interesting thing
is that if you have an AI product that
is in itself used by agents and not by
humans then per se pricing also no
longer works. Um, so there's there's a
whole bunch of like movement just as a
result of changing usage patterns and
and expectations.
>> Modem has usage based pricing.
>> Leos has usage based pricing
>> but I know for both of us we approached
it that way on the if this continues
sebased pricing won't make sense and I
know that both of us have kind of had
that in mind going back a long time if
that makes sense. I mean the reality is
that if you're responsible then if your
cost scales with tokens then your
pricing has a scale of tokens until the
cost goes down to a tenth of it. Like if
if the cost of like we never worried
about the cost of storage or about the
cost of CPUs or something like this when
offering SAS products in the last cycle
because for the most part infrastructure
was so cheap. If GPUs also get that
cheap, then presumably nobody cares
anymore and you can actually have good
good margins and different pricing
models, but that's not the case today.
>> So, how does this end, right? Does this
is this like
>> is it going to end with like a the death
of some companies or
>> I guess I could see this as like a
trigger to a bubble like we'll find out,
right? If you thought there was a
bubble, this is sort of an interesting
it's an interesting gut check moment,
right? Like, are you willing to spend
$100,000 per engineer? Are you willing
to spend a dollar per code review or,
you know, a dollar for that? You see
what I'm saying? Like,
>> yeah,
>> this is an interesting moment. Maybe the
answer is yes. This is like a real in
some ways it could be super healthy,
right? Because if this continues and
everyone looks at the cost and goes,
"Well, it's more expensive, but I'm
getting the value and these costs are
closer to the true value of in terms of
the cost, right? They're sort of like
not subsidized. People are taking a
margin on it, then hey, maybe
everything's great, right? And we maybe
even accelerate from here." Or
alternatively, if everyone does a little
bit of what you described, which is I
don't really want to pay that and
[laughter]
kind of, you know, everyone like
retrenches, maybe that could be a real
pulling back.
>> Yeah. I'm reading a lot of I mean, I
think I mentioned this a couple of times
on this podcast, but I'm I'm I'm reading
a lot about the industrial revolution
because I think a lot of it is really
really relevant. And one of the sort of
recurring topics about how the
industrial revolution happened was that
uh you had factories and then you had
people supplying machinery.
But because the productivity went up so
much and the rate of innovation of
machines also went up that quickly, the
capital expenditure that the that the
factory had to actually buy the always
best machines and to stay competitive
was humongous. And a lot of them didn't
make it because like they're like the
the the forecasting of like what the
demand will be and what the machine will
do and like the cost of upgrading the
machine like it didn't actually play
out. So the individually like at the end
of the industrial revolution we were all
more productive than before. But along
the way, it was actually very hard for
most people to actually get a lot of
value out of it because like it sort of
scaled up in a really interesting way.
And I think it's the same thing now,
right? This is like entropy clearly has
stability issues because they've
probably forecasted their AI demands
wrong. So now they're kind of paying for
this and we are all more productive at
the same time also paying so much money
for these tokens. And then we're not
quite as productive because we also do
some nonsense. But also, if we don't
play the AI game, then also it's not
going to be great for us. So, it's like
we're all collectively in this really
bizarre situation again. I don't know.
I'm not saying it's a bubble, but it is
just a very painful kind of transition
in a way.
And some companies are going to succeed
and some will not succeed. And it's
maybe not even the greatest product
that's necessarily going to win. It's
also going to be just really good
financial modeling and and I don't know,
it's complicated.
I'm actually excited for this right now
because to me it's like we get to find
out when tokens were massively
subsidized. Well, you could generate,
you know, you can generate garbage
because, you know, if you generate or
you could generate so much and it
doesn't matter that 90% of it is garbage
because if 10% is good, well, look, you
didn't you didn't pay the true price.
So, so you you're getting that value out
of it. If you're if we're all paying the
true price for everything and you know
now we're going to be a lot more
selective and gonna generate more SLO
we're going to kind of like I think
solve these problems a little bit
better. I guess I like the honesty of
it. I don't know if that makes sense.
>> Yeah.
I mean theoretically if we all get our
token usage down by 50% then we have 50%
more capacity, right? [laughter]
I mean like there's a there's a whole
bunch of stuff that could be done that
probably should in one way or another
sort of even out uh prices that is not
just from the supplier side but also
from like the demand side. Maybe it's a
good moment to talk about pi.
>> Let's talk about pi. It's my perception.
Maybe you can correct me. Maybe you've
had this secret ambition this whole
time. You didn't set out to be building
a coding agent. Why don't we start
there?
>> No. Yeah. So the pre-story of the whole
thing is that in March last year, April,
March, I don't know, sometime around
this, Peter Steinberger, a friend of
mine, I got me and Mario hooked on
coding agents. And for the rest of the
year, we just ex shared experiences and
and bunch of stuff, right? And so like
similar kind of environment and so
forth. And then throughout this uh I
started a company with Colin and we also
already tried to hire Mario. He didn't
build Pi at the time but like we we kind
of liked sort of conversations that we
had on on like what could be built in
the space and so forth. And in October
or so, it became somewhat clear that we
all like something is going on and and
at least Mario was increasingly
convinced that he wants the old clo code
back I guess that didn't do crazy stuff
and we all started building in one form
or another on agents like we were
started working on Leos. Peter was
obsessed with building this WhatsApp
relay agent that was originally based on
plot code.
>> Can I interrupt for a second? Because I
think look a lot of people clearly came
to claude code later right December
holidays when you when you when Mario or
you say hey I want that claude code that
didn't do the crazy stuff like what are
you referring to like what does it do
today that it that that it didn't do
before vice versa. So when when cloud
code released early on in April,
I think it released earlier, but the the
experience that you got from claude code
in like April to July was that it didn't
actually do all that much. It it it ran
some commands, it read some files, it
wrote some files, it added some stuff,
but it it was it was rather sort of
minimal compared to what it does today.
And Mario maintained a website for a
really long time called CC history where
you can see the changes from cloud code
version to cloud code version. And I
think I talked about this in the podcast
before like both Mario and I we sort of
got a little bit obsessed with this idea
of like software extending itself. Our
idea was like okay this is a thing where
like normies can have their own like
workflow expressed in a in a tool that
sort of sits with them. But Mari's
version of this was like, okay, this
this can be a coding harness that is
adopting to your workflows and and
adopting to your kind of way of working.
And and the to a large degree, I think
the the motivation for him was that you
can have when you run PI within project
A or you run PI within project B, it can
sort of behave differently because it
sort of adjusts to the the demands of
that project. And in December when when
when he already was like fully on this
and I sort of slowly started moving on
it, I was still using AMP for the most
part I think because also what I really
really liked about AMP is that the way
the AMP folks I mean AMP is expensive in
a way because like they they basically
had to charge token prices. They
couldn't charge the subsidies. But AMP
also very much focused on how do you
write a harness that's actually very
good. like this there's like
intrinsically it's doing like not too
much crazy stuff and so they had like
very few tools in comparison they had
this um uh this oracle things like that.
So anyways, what happened in January was
I I think we talked about this on the
podcast that basically openclaw exploded
a little bit and I also wrote a blog
post on pi in relation to openclaw and
what sort of unfolded for the next two
months or so was that a lot of people
started using pi or talking about pi and
there was like oh there was some
interest in pi and so we managed to
convince Mario [laughter] that maybe we
should do something together because we
we have very much aligned interests of
what we want to do with it. Why why does
Arendelle exist? Quite frankly, it
exists because we think that there's a
lot of value in AI, but we want to do it
in a most responsible way and make it
accessible to as many people as
possible, right? Leos is our first
attempt of doing it. I don't think in
the form that we have it, it's it's
going to be the be all end all because
like we we kind of want it to be more
accessible. Um, but there's a lot of
hurdles in a way of actually making that
work. for a start tokens are too
expensive. [laughter]
Um and and and and some things are not
quite there yet. Uh but PI is is just a
is a really really useful building block
also for for building your own agents on
it. Like Leos has been built on PI for
for the longest time. I think we I think
basically from from November or so we
built it on top of PI instead of um we
used to use the Velia SDK and we moved
off that for for PI. Yeah. So that's the
that's basically a pre-tory. So we Mar
is is now part of Arendelle. Um and we
we want to run PI as like a very
responsible stewards for an for an open
source project. So we're not doing
anything that that will take away from
this. But we also want to be quite
transparent. It's like if we have PI as
as a property with an Arendel then we
also want to ensure that PI in one form
or another is generates revenue. We'll
see. We have some ideas of of what what
we think is is actually going to be a
win-win transactions for for both users
and us, but um it's not the highest
priority, I would say.
>> When things like this happen, can I call
it an acquisition?
>> Yeah, it's technically an acquisition.
>> It's technically an acquisition. When
things like this happen, it's rarely out
of the blue. Just one thing I guess like
I want to share with people because
sometimes you see this stuff happen. I
don't know. Maybe TVPN
maybe may maybe [laughter]
maybe TVPN is out of the blue. But my
experience is
>> next acquisition will be this podcast.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
Is just that these things happen.
They're often happening in the
background like over a long time, right?
Um actually I was listening to the
Syntax 1000's episode which happened uh
this week. Syntax is a very popular
podcast. If you're not familiar with it,
go check it out. West Boss, Scott
Tolinsky, CJ, and a great crew. But they
talked about like they got acquired by
Sentry and that was a topic that they
went into and Wes explained a little bit
like that. I think it was a reader
question. and they were doing like a
live stream and someone had a question
of like how did that come together and
Wes is like well you know it it went
back like a long time like Sentry was
one of our earliest sponsors and you
know
>> yeah no nothing ever happens like
actually I would say like a lot of
things happen without thinking right
it's like a Facebook acquired mold book
[laughter]
that was not a long way coming but I
would say in my circles uh and I think
in your circles we h happen to hang out
I think a lot with people that uh value
long like they play the long game. Let's
put it this way, right? Where like you
you really think this through and at one
point it sort of becomes more obvious
that this might be a good idea and you
like you really force the conversation
like like what does it mean for both
sides and and it's it's very very
planned in a way. Eventually, I think I
wanna like when when all of this is
over, not in the sense of like we have
we've sort of done this, but like like
maybe in 10 years time I kind of feel
like, okay, that then will be the moment
to talk about like how it came, but
there's there's a lot that goes on in
these conversations. They're very
boring, but actually really hard because
you basically like you like I know Mario
for a really long time, right? It's like
there's the risk with this is always
also that like you might not just [__]
up the business, you might also [__] up
your relationship, right? And so all of
a sudden it feels like like dating like
now it's going deep. [laughter]
>> You're moving in together.
>> Exactly.
>> Right.
>> Which is also why I didn't I didn't want
to talk with anyone about this in any
form whatsoever until like we were
really really sure because I think Yeah.
>> All right. So like I'm going to take a
moment here to to highlight this one
more time. So when I I mentioned earlier
like if you if you actually listen to
the first episodes and you follow this
you'll basically see this whole pi story
follow the timeline that Armen just laid
out because we we we did the first
episode at the end of November. So
pretty much following that what I mean
to say is also I in some ways like
things are there in plain sight
sometimes and some of that is happening
right now.
Okay, some of that is happening right
now on X, you know, or YouTube or
whatever, like these little these sort
of relationships that are developing and
they're sometimes in plain sight and
it's just whether whether you notice
them or not. Prediction for listeners,
put it in the comments. What is the next
AI coding related acquisition? Oh my
god, we didn't get the cursor.
[laughter]
>> Oh, we forgot about cursor.
>> Maybe because it hasn't happened yet, if
you know what I mean. Yeah. Then maybe
maybe we should talk also about cursor
just very briefly.
>> Maybe these are all always going to be
90-minute episodes because there's just
too much stuff happening. Um
>> yeah.
>> All right. So on the topic of
acquisitions, Aarendelle acquired Pi.
Congratulations. And in the same tier in
the same, you know, in the same uh
pantheon of of corporate acquisitions,
[laughter]
SpaceX SpaceX acquired Cursor. Was it
SpaceX? Yeah, I guess it's called SpaceX
now. Every like it will be called Tesla
in half an hour probably.
>> Musk is going to merge everything
together into massive conglomerate at
just the X company. I have a lot of
thoughts on this and actually kind of
forgot about it. I had two conversation,
one of a good friend and another one um
with an acquaintance where we had a
discussion on a Grock 420. I don't know
if you remember this, but there was a
Grock model that didn't do amazingly
well. I missed that one. I'm glad.
[laughter] I'm glad I missed that one.
>> But they basically try to train a model
purely on synthetic data. Generally the
the feeling within the industry seemed
to have migrated towards that that
doesn't quite work. So like purely like
training in a good aentic model and
purely aentic data is not a winning
strategy at least right now. So that
also has increasingly led to certain
companies that actually have good data
being really good suppliers of training
data. And so uh Grock has the GPUs but
Grock doesn't have the data is sort of
the short version. Cursor doesn't have
the GPUs but curs has the data. So it's
a match made in heaven. And I think a
lot of it can be sort of explained by
this. Also I think maybe this is sort of
like where where the whole thing sort of
gets weird. SpaceX is basically in a
process of IPOing
for which they have filed an S1 which is
basically sort of the last statement
that you're making to the IRS I guess
not the RS SEC you you're making a
statement to the SEC about sort of like
things that people should know when they
purchase those shares and obviously that
would be a material event for them to uh
acquire cursor so they don't actually
acquire cursor they do some sort of
transaction where they basically buy
they pay cursor for XM X mill X was what
was it 10 billion for services
with an option to acquire them for 60
billion and presumably if they go public
in the meantime they're going to raise
enough money that they can basically buy
cursor at a discount that's more or less
what this looks like it's a great escape
strategy for cursor that was my main
thinking because last time we talked
about like oh what's going to happen to
cursor it's like oh now we figured out
what's going to happen for cursor money
[laughter]
I don't know it's very simple button.
The world is so crazy right now and the
valuations have gotten so crazy which is
hat tip to cursor
a couple years ago. This was a VS Code
fork turned into a $60 billion
acquisition. Look, if you're young, that
might just seem par for the course, but
I remember, you know, when Flickr sold
for like $45 million to Yahoo and the
internet went crazy. Like that was a
that was a high water mark for a while.
Look,
>> right.
>> I I just want to it's going to be a
shitty comparison, but the Ford Motor
Company employs 169,000 employees.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Produces I don't know how many cars a
year is what 120 years old or something.
I have no idea when I got founded. And
they are worth 48 billion in market cap.
[laughter]
I don't know how many employees cursor
has but I tell you they're not building
any cars. [laughter]
And yeah, I don't know. I'm not saying
bubble, but it's wild. It is kind of
wild, right? This this seems a little
bit wrong.
>> The Overton window is usually used to
describe politics, but I think there's
an Overton window for like how you
sensibly evaluate companies and uh that
has shifted quite a bit, you know.
>> Yeah. I don't know. I mean, look, I I'm
I'm definitely not calling it a bubble
because I think like if you take the
money overall, like that's being spent
on data centers and [__] like that. To
me, that actually makes a ton of sense
because I do actually think we're going
to use all of this, but that the market
individually finds that any one of those
companies makes a ton of sense at those
valuations that I have really hard time
with.
>> You actually made this acquisition make
sense to me earlier. Your your comment
about they have the compute, they don't
necessarily have the data. And you also
made the comment about X the everything
app. Look, if you're building the
everything app and you need the
everything AI also so much has been said
about hey is like is code basically the
the core ingredient here for AGI if you
want to call it that but just sort of
like you know agentic behavior that in
in which you can go and do anything and
it's basically driven by code you know
for if anthropic is worth this and
Gemini and and open AI are worth these
things and this is like your unlock to
get there I actually think that you know
is not I think that's a maybe a r
rational bet that's like how I look at
it based on what you told me right
>> yeah it's probably the most rational
thing that xai has done in in a long
time
>> you heard it here first
>> look the value of traces I think has
been sufficiently understood by a lot of
play players in that space coding traces
are just great because they start with
human input they contain a little bit
more human input and they have a very
easy to measure signal at the end did
the user commit
>> right like it's like it's a
mechanically verifiable
uh reward function and you can build
reinforcement learning environments
around them. the the closest equivalent
that Grock has and like Grock also
doesn't program but it's like did you
like this response and is like by number
of tweets to it and basically the main
signal they're going to get is like
boobies count better right it's like
that's the signal that you get on
Twitter it's like if it produces content
that people engage with there's no
programming in Gro you're also
highlighting something which is it's
making me sad which is ultimately like
these big like the biggest sort of
software businesses and I'm including
social and that if you really reduce
them to what they are is that they are
basically human [snorts] data
aggregators for you know like just
sucking down human behavioral data to
apply to some other function. Do you see
what I'm saying? If you're not the the
customer, you're the what is it?
>> The product.
>> Yeah. You're the product.
>> With cursor, you're both.
>> Yeah. I mean like you're literally
you're literally training the model in
one from another. Like I think there are
two ways of looking at this, right? Like
one is is like okay, oh here's this $60
billion company and you're sort of like
providing data to them for their models
to get better and that feels wrong. I
would actually argue there's a better
way of looking at this and I think Mario
said this really well in a recent
podcast that we did with GG as engineers
and I think we also talked about this
last time you you mentioned like that
the cost of like tokens going up, the
cost of laptops is going up. like
actually being a programmer these days
is is a is a real investment and I I
think that that the big risk here is
that we actually come fully dependent on
this stuff and now we are like we're
actually forced to dish out money to one
or two large labs right and what
actually stands in a way for open weight
models to get really really good is that
they don't have the agent traces they
they they suck a little bit in
pre-training so there's there's there's
something lacking in the base models for
like long long content length adherence.
So once that is fixed, what the other
thing is going to be really good
reinforcement learning on aic traces. So
there should actually be an incentive of
us programmers sharing our traces to
open weight model providers uh as
opposed to just sharing them to entropic
right now. Um and um and I think like it
hasn't fully like that kind of thinking
hasn't fully um happened yet. Um Mario
started sharing the traces that he's
doing on pi on hugging face. Um he wrote
a tool that helps others share the
stuff. Uh because like we need more open
weight models to have the same kind of
data to work with that currently just
the large companies have.
>> It feels very similar to so many things
that we've already seen like Yelp
reviews, right? I contribute reviews, I
get some value back in the sense that
other people have reviews and I I
receive, you know, uh there's something
to that. You could argue GitHub is a
similar thing, open source, right? I I
get value out of this. I contribute to
it and the whole thing kind of
collectively gets value. There are
products that collect traces. There's
traces.com is one of them. I don't yet
understand the value of I'm going to
share my trace and I'm going to go and
look at other people's traces. like as a
human I'm not that interested in that.
That's like it's like that is so much
work and time and I don't know what I'm
getting out of that. It's also it's kind
of like you know you can record all the
meeting notes in the world. I I I prefer
if you just summarized if you just told
me what happened really quickly. So I
feel like there's an effort to sort of
like get people engaged in capturing and
sharing traces but I don't know the
value for me.
>> Yeah. So first of all, it's also it's a
gamble right now, right? Because like so
there's no point. Let's put this way.
There is a point, but there's there's
very little point in each one
individually of us sharing our traces on
hugging face right now if there's nobody
training on those traces, right? So like
it's in some sense a chicken and egg
situation but like it is there has to
also be awareness on a model lab side
that this is a really important thing to
do and the this whole move towards more
agentic coding based agents and so forth
that is very obvious now but even like
nine months ago I think a lot of labs
just didn't really have like entropic
and codex openi probably already knew
and the Chinese already knew a little
bit but But that hasn't extended to
everybody. It also hasn't extended to
the people running the GPUs yet. That
there will be more aentic everything. If
someone would have started sharing
traces like six to nine months ago, who
would have given who would have cared?
There's a little bit of awareness. I
know that we talked to folks at Hugging
Face. We talked to folks at Nvidia um
and a bunch of other companies who are
like, "Oh yeah, this like having traces
is is a is is interesting and and there
will be demand for it." But that also
took a while to to sort of like become
aware. And so like and that's and so now
maybe there are going to be some people
training on it. But now you have to sort
of like actually convince people that
they should share some data which might
have stuff in there that they don't want
to share, right? Obviously like cloud
code by default is sort of has some
sharing going on. You sort of have have
to opt out of it. So like they cross
this bridge already. But imagine
something like open code or pi wanting
to do that. like we would never do that
by default and so then we will have to
convince people that this is actually
good for you but then you have to also
have critical mass. So like there's
there's like this awareness building has
to start somewhere. Um and then there
has to be other people on the other side
that are building open weight models
because like if if they're just going to
build another rock from it then then you
don't feel good about this either,
right?
>> Should everyone be more mindful of their
traces? Like I've been burying deep
therapy sessions with Claude in like
coding sessions so that no one would
find it. Is that is that going to get
out there? Should I be more careful?
>> Uh I don't know. If you have the data
sharing thing on with cloud codes then
then your stuff goes to entropic, right?
>> They probably tricked me to say yes. So
EULA man uh we got into some interesting
stuff here. I'm trying to think about
where we want to go. But we had some
other topics which I don't even know.
>> I think we should definitely talk about
GitHub.
>> I I was thinking Yeah. How about you
start this one off?
>> Okay. So, one other thing that has
happened in the last actually a thing
that has been going on for a really long
time but has definitely exploded a
little bit more in the last couple
months is GitHub. GitHub exploded twice.
As of right now, I still don't see all
my poll requests because their elastic
search plus made a boo boo. Um, and uh,
before that, I think GitHub actions had
a pretty I I forgot which one it was.
Anyways, um, this took
quite a dramatic turn earlier this week
because Mitchell Hashimoto from Ghosti
or Ghosti Y, never know how to pronounce
this, made a heartfelt post that he is
going to move the project off GitHub. He
doesn't know where yet, but he's
sufficiently upset with the state of
affairs. And if you follow some GitHub
people, they're also unhappy, but
they're also super upset, or maybe not
upset, but they are like they're
frustrated by just the instability that
they're having to deal with that is
largely caused by a combination of just
way more traffic coming from agents. And
I I don't think they will admit this as
quite as much, but GitHub doesn't have a
ton of leadership right now. and they
have some updown demands to do some data
center migrations and Azure shenanigans
and so like the whole thing sort of
falls together to what is basically
right now a pretty disappointing
experience.
>> By the way, I'm going to connect this
even earlier to the price of compute or
disks. There's a lot of people pushing
code as like GitHub probably needs more
discs than they than they did before,
right? And from what I've heard from
people familiar with infrastructure at
GitHub, they actually and sometimes have
challenges or they're basically blocked
from getting more resources in some of
the data centers that they have. So part
of the migration to Azure is also just
because for reasons that I won't share
here. They actually cannot put more
stuff into some of the centers that they
have. No software that I'm working with
frustrates me quite as much as GitHub.
Like really really badly. in in part
because of the availability and the
other part because like um Pi as an
example takes gets so many issue
requests, pull requests every day and
like the tools that GitHub actually has
to deal with this [__] is non-existent
and I think the incentives are not
really aligned to fix that and then the
the the changes that they're rolling out
on their UI, they're just horrible. So
many problems with like I'm seeing
issues that were already closed, they
still show up. Anyways, the whole thing
doesn't make me very happy. Um, and for
me, seeing Mitchell Hajimoto leave
actually is really, really meaningful
because when Sik moved, I wanted to
write this blog post and I started this
draft. I was like, yeah, maybe this will
cause people to move. But I don't think
Sik moving would have done anything. But
when someone like Mitchell writes about
it, I think it will cause other people
to also move. And then like when a bunch
of large projects move then then like it
starts obviously the former CEO of
GitHub raised a ginormous funding seat
round to build a GitHub competitor. Um
so there will be financial incentives
also that sort of go into the market to
try to create some alternative to it.
There's another company called Tangled.
Do you hear about this? They also raised
money as well. Tangled.org.
>> So the another one is tangled.org which
is from what I can tell some
distributed.
>> So this was a listener question from
Serge I think surgical which was where
where is it going or like what are even
the possibilities and maybe is is the
answer just tangled
>> I think um so tangled is the one the
other one is called n and something and
not encore and entire it's called entire
entire entire.io I don't know where it's
going to move. Uh there's another comp
there's another project called uh code
code. Um my experience with code has
been pretty bad uh because it's quite
unreliable at least on European working
hours. I don't know where it's going to
move, man. I have no idea. Maybe people
are going to host their own tracks
again.
>> I almost wanted to go a little bit into
the history here because I feel like
this is one topic where you and I are
both experts. You are an expert on many
many more things than me. Look, You're
an expert on GitHub.
>> I'm an expert on GitHub. Mitchell
Hashimoto flexed that he was GitHub user
like 1,200. I'm GitHub user 2153, I
think. And I know that you're
>> under 10K. I don't know exactly what my
numbers
>> and quick reason the quick reason why I
have such an early account is I was
really into Ruby on Rails at the time
when GitHub came out and I read Chris
Wayne who is one of the co-founders of
of GitHub. I was read I was a big fan of
his blog. you know, I had it subscribed
RSS. So, I'm like quite confident
whenever this was announced, like I saw
it pretty early. Uh there was no Twitter
or Twitter was very nent, I think, at
the time. So, pretty much this was all
like blog posts and forum posts and
stuff like that. Anyway, so that's
that's kind of how I got on that. Where
I want to go with this was so look,
we've been on the platform for a very
long time. And it's crazy to think how
old it is, right? When GitHub came out,
I thought Source Forge was old as dirt.
Okay,
>> which it was,
>> which it was. GitHub is way older
[snorts] than that right now.
>> Maybe maybe like what people don't know
is like on GitHub you go and you press a
button they have a repository. Did you
ever create a source for source force
project?
>> No. No.
>> I tell you how that was. You went you
filled out a form. You had to put your
real name there for a start. You had to
fill out the form. You signed some terms
of service. Then you declared your
license up front and you applied. And
then within two weeks someone someone
said like yes you can or yes you can't
or no you can't. It was like it was a
process that felt like creating a
company [laughter]
>> startup opportunity. Also another thing
that we should talk about during this
moment subversion. So like there's been
like many different uh source.
>> My first source force project was on CBS
CSV how it's called CBS.
>> I also I also use CVS not the drugstore.
Is the C for concurrent? Is it
concurrent version control?
>> Probably. I I know it was an extension
to RCS.
>> I also used RCS. This is all very
embarrassing. Anyways, the point was
there had been different version control
tools of of like what you think of Git
today in terms of like committing like a
lot of those concepts all exist, but
what was emerging all of those tools
CVS, SVN pretty much had a um
centralized server that you were that
you were like pushing and pulling code
from. So, same concepts, right? and 2006
2007 2008 around this time there's this
like oh distributed source control and
git was not the only choice and many
people do know about mercurial which was
sort of like number two and I I guess I
like to do a little history here to say
that you know the the environment that
exists today kind of shook out from
almost like a I don't know battle
>> do you remember do you remember how it
started
>> um what do you mean like Lionus or what
are we talking here?
>> Yeah, like why? No, this even even prior
to Linus like Linus was not the first to
>> to start this.
>> Oh, then then maybe not. Go ahead.
>> The whole the whole pre story on this
was they used a system called BitKeeper
for many years which allowed basically
patches to be distributed via the Linux
mailing list
>> and then um they had basically a very
similar system to Git when it comes to
being able to merge them together. And
the company that ran BitKeeper gave the
Linux developers free licenses and the
rule was that nobody's allowed to
reverse engineer BitKeeper and then
someone did [laughter]
and the company based like no more
licenses. I mean this is a simplified
version of this and the first people
that tried to do this there were a bunch
of project one of which uh was darks one
of which then was git one of which was
material and there was another one
>> I'm upset you name dropped Darks before
me by the I was so ready to drop that.
Um, yeah. So, there were a bunch of
them. Um,
>> because I went to a like bar camp event
where someone was like, "Hey, here's
Darks." And it was like a full
presentation on darks. And like I went
home and played with it, you know? So,
like, you know, I guess I guess I like
to share a little bit of like this whole
a little bit of what you're experiencing
right now with Open Code and Pi and
different agentic solutions and everyone
being like pretty excited. You know, I
actually think this was a kind of a
little bit of an exciting moment for
source control. Is that fair? No, it was
it was a very exciting moment. It was so
cool. And and also like I think like
>> the what what was so interesting about
it is like actually nobody ever liked
subversion. I think like on a very
fundamental level subversion like it's
it's not that people hated subversion
but like subversion a lot of stuff in it
which was just actually not really good.
Like you couldn't merge. You had to be
online to do something.
>> The conflicts were bad. You could you
could get into a conflict and you're
like I think I have to wipe away
everything.
>> Yeah. It it was it was like I remember
like we I mean it was so stupid but like
when you wanted to merge a release
branch into it was like a multi-day
experience like nobody commits right
now. [laughter]
>> We're going to do some
>> the way that people build software kind
of like adapted to how subversion worked
like in terms of organizing releases and
branches. I I don't want to get too
historical here other than I think it's
fascinating. This could be like another
documentary. uh somebody should put this
documentary together. But I I guess I
want to I guess I'm doing a little bit
of like where GitHub came from, right?
Because I'd say at the end of the day,
it came down to Mercurial and Git and
Mercurial was certainly very popular.
You like for example, I'm quite
confident Facebook mccurial was used
everywhere at Facebook maybe around
2009, right? So you had you had you know
Facebook obviously was not as big as it
was today but you had like big sort of
engineering teams and valuable companies
that were like you know like teams you
know like Xbox versus PlayStation like
murial and and and git. Um I had to give
a I had to give a present I gave a
presentation once inside of my company
at Freshbooks about how these stacked up
and why we should maybe pursue one
versus the other. And my presentation
hinged on GitHub.
>> I was making the argument that it was
very obvious that the open source
community had had more or less chosen
GitHub, but also not just chosen because
there was no equivalent
honestly like social software thing from
Mercurial.
>> That was very wrong.
>> I'm not saying that it wasn't one. I'm
just saying.
>> So, one of the reasons why I didn't have
a lower GitHub ID was because I was
boycotting it for a little while because
I put my money as a Python developer on
Muriel and Bitbucket. I even contributed
a little patch to Bitbucket at one point
um to do the div rendering.
>> This speaks to you heard me earlier. I
was into Ruby on Rails and depending on
what community you were a part of and I
do know that like um was material
written in Python? I know it supported
Python extensions, right?
>> It was written in Python,
>> right? And I can tell you at Freshworks
by the way, we had a huge Python
contingent. That's also why it became
sort of a a little bit of a a
challenging conversation. Yeah, people
were kind of in the tank for one
depending on your religion.
>> Yeah, for sure. like Bitbucket came out
of the Django community. It was written
in Django. Actually, I think if that
might be like bad retelling of history,
but um I am pretty sure the reason I
joined GitHub at one point was just
because I I couldn't escape it anymore.
>> Today everything is on GitHub, but there
was a period where slowly
>> everything was on Google code.
>> Yeah. You know, things were everywhere
and kind of like almost like the
dominoes fell and and it's this took
years. you know, you'd still see major
projects maybe like 2014, 2015 that were
like we're going to GitHub. Does that
make sense? Is that
>> So, first of all, like maybe what we
didn't tell about is like look, I I'm
pretty sure the the listener to this
podcast are old, [laughter]
>> our age, so I don't think we're telling
anything here to anyone who wasn't
there, but is a good retelling to
remember that it was very common that
everybody ran their own server.
>> So, I ran a server that had subversion
on it. I shared it with Giok bundle um
and a bunch of others. We called it puku
because we wanted I don't know we made a
software collective like everybody did
at the time uh so that we can have more
projects on one subversion server with
track and everything on it. Uh so that's
what we used there was also red mine
there was a bunch of other projects too.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> And like that was the that was pretty
common and there was another project in
Germany was called beios which was a
clone of subversion of um sorry source
force. If you ever had a source forge
server, you got SSH access to run your
own Pearl programs on there. So like a
lot of projects just ran bug what was it
called? Bugzilla on source force server
source forge servers. So you you
basically you got the infrastructure
from them but then you had to run your
own buck tracker on it and you had to
install your own security. It was kind
of wild. And and Python ran a setup like
this with their own issue system and
like their own subversion until I'm
pretty sure like 2015 or something. I I
I I'm pretty sure they didn't move that
long ago. Yeah. 9 years ago. I
>> think this is tracking with some of my
dates. Like there were still major
projects moving, right? And I I don't
make this totally historical, but I do
think that the history is relevant to
how we got here, which is over time
ultimately,
you know, I I said that the case for
Git, a distributed version control
system, was GitHub, a centralized
commercial service.
>> And today, you know, I I guess even
Armen saying, you go back 10 years ago,
it wasn't quite so dominant. even though
it was huge, it's not quite so dominant
certainly as it was as it is now or a
few years ago where just like everything
is there and it's become like the it it
turned into the baseline expectation
that your stuff is there right if you
write open source it's there frankly if
you there's not a lot of businesses I
would say even you know with private
source code who are off of GitHub there
yeah that's like a big asterisk
>> yeah GitLab is big I I right but if
you're like like a SAS company that's
just starting up or whatever like a new
startup up. You kind of go there. Um,
and I should also mention this, which is
both Discuss and Sentry use another
tool, Fabricator, an open- source
another open-source um source um source
control hosting. Uh it it hosted Git,
right? I'm pretty sure
>> it had a program called I think if I
remember correctly, it was called ARC,
which basically allowed you to send
patch sets up. So it sort of piggybacked
the top of Git, but it wasn't quite
using git, but it had sort of a pull
request system in it that was
significantly better than GitHubs. But
yeah, like I think there's another
thing. So sorry, very briefly, there's
another thing I think that sort of I
remember and that is really not that
long. When I started working, maybe it
was the gaming company I worked for or
it was the company before, but in any
case, like I remember I showed up on my
first workday and it was a self-hosted
material installation. I was like, "Can
we just use GitHub?" And they were like,
>> "No, nobody uses GitHub. You don't put
proprietary software code on GitHub."
[laughter]
>> That was like that was like I was like,
"No, this is just for like open source
nerds." [laughter]
>> That is true. I that is worth
acknowledging that there was a long time
where you know your the open source
stuff was on GitHub and you and I you
know had stuff on GitHub but when it
came to your actual work you had it
somewhere else in like a more secure
location and then
>> and or GitHub enterprise so they had
like a behind the firewall version if
you had that you were reasonably
confident and then and then eventually
you know cloud so just to say that
GitHub you know GitHub has become
dominant and not even too long ago
honestly people had other platforms that
they could reasonably use. David might
yell at me. I think we got off
Fabricator. It could have been 2017. It
could have been 2016. You know, it's not
even about the open source or the
private source or anything. It has just
become such a platform. This summer when
we started modem, I was very in like I
was very committed to the idea of
working with new products. Like I I
wanted to try new stuff. I wanted to try
new things being built by people using
AI. And um I knew my friends were uh
building Pierre Pierre.com, Pierre
Computer Company, and they had a lot of
the ex GitHub team on there. Um you
know, uh including MGO, who I'm pretty
sure was GitHub's creative director for
years, right? So I felt really good
about the team behind that. And then I
got I asked to get into the beta and we
were building modem for I want to say
May through
August September. Okay. Pushing a lot of
codes through this platform. And I think
if you go to pure.com I'm not even sure
if you could find it right now. Is it is
it live? Jacob Thornton the CEO might
yell at me. He's like it's totally live
Ben. Everyone should sign up today. I
want to tell you that I actually enjoy
this platform and they were exploring
with like new ways of work, new ways of
like doing code review and um they had a
really nice CI runner where instead of
YAML for GitHub actions they use
TypeScript which was really great
because you had like typed you know
types workflows that didn't fail all the
time. However, the problem was this. As
all these AI solutions were coming out
and they wanted to interrupt with
software, that software was naturally
GitHub. I barely even GitLab, frankly.
It's mostly GitHub. So,
>> you know, catch 22. I want to use these
new products, but if I wanted an AI code
reviewer, well, they only interop
interacted with GitHub. And so many
products do this, right? I had to leave
the platform even though I thought it
was good because just the the AI
ecosystem was really gravitating towards
GitHub in this like almost penultimate
way in the last year, right? I'm just
going to repeat this. A year ago, I
rationally thought I could just take my
business and I could write some software
and I could put it on another provider
and it would be fine. I didn't think
that was true. you know, come August,
>> I felt similar in the sense that like
there there was no question I would
obviously put my code on GitHub like why
wouldn't I? also in part because like I
really felt like there's going to be
maybe not all of it of Aron's code is
going to be open source but I think a
lot of it is going to be open source and
where else is going to be like I don't
want to be a server hosting company and
so yeah like there was no good reason
not to at the same time I actually felt
like throughout the entire last year
there were too many
um there were already too many signs
that people are going to explore
alternatives to GitHub Um I think you
already mentioned Pierre is a is a
company that I clearly wants to sort of
explore an alternative to GitHub. Um
want to just paging on top of it and I I
know that venture funds were already
looking for like now is the time to
rebuild a whole bunch of stuff. So there
are VCs looking to fund GitHub
alternatives because they also feel like
there's going to be a space for like
human and Asian collaboration and and
maybe both Git and GitHub are not the
solution for it. So there's movement in
that space um for sure. Now
>> I want to touch on something really
quickly. I I thought you were going
here. I don't want to mention the
dinosaur company again. If you want an
AI code review tool in July, man, I
didn't know how to build that. I'm not
spending time building that, right? That
that is a really dumb thing to do. So
yeah, look, I'll plug I'll plug it into
GitHub. Great. You know, and think about
what the state of the Asian SDKs or
everything were at that time, right? we
didn't have skills, right? But today,
and also, how about this? You know,
there was no PI, there was no um I don't
even know if the cloud SDK existed at
the time. Could have.
>> Yeah, it was. I think
>> but I just didn't want to spend the time
on it. The models have gotten so much
better. the tools have gotten so much
better where I think the argument you're
trying to make here is while that
platform probably really mattered in the
sum, you know, a year ago might not
matter so much now because the, you
know, people can build new tools, you
can build new tools. Is that kind of
where you're going?
>> Yeah, for sure. Like the this idea that
we have to piggyback on top of GitHub, I
I think everybody's rejecting that
increasingly. Like even the code review
companies I think are increasingly
rejecting that they have to sit on top
of GitHub because like as an example
like all of those companies including
including the dinosaur company as far as
I know have a thing that runs locally
now. They go into different places and
particularly also they want to go into
any CI solution. Um they don't just want
to hang out in GitHub actions.
>> How about this? Also your agent can
instrument these things more easily.
Right. A year ago I I I just want to
click a button. But today uh I can ask
the agent to figure it out for me. So
>> since I think GitHub is up for grabs,
the question that I have in many ways is
that if if open source moves away from
being on one platform and being on like
seven different platforms again, maybe a
federation of platforms with Tangled,
how is stuff going to change? And as an
example, GitHub is is integrated into
the Go compiler as far as I remember
because like if you if you set
dependencies on Go, you hardcode the
location on GitHub into the dependency.
Um I don't know if there's like special
support for GitHub in particular, but
like it's um the the Go dependency
system is very much dependent on like
stable URLs that point to GitHub uh to
Git repositories at the very least. So
the models also completely understand
the GH CLI, right? So does that maybe
just that CLI becomes kind of a generic
API?
>> I don't know. We'll see.
>> Should we talk about side projects?
>> We have a I don't know. We have a lot.
We've got I guess we could if we're
doing the side projects, it's like we're
we're closing with the side projects is
so we're closing with the predictions.
>> Okay. So much time side projects. What
have we been building? All right. Tell
me. Look, tell me tell me about your
side project.
>> My side project over the last week has
been building a computer game with my
kids, with my boys. I've built games
before with agents, but this time I was
like, okay, it would be really cool to
sort of like teach the kids just how to
use an agent, but also figuring out how
you would use an agent of kids and like
maybe they can learn something from it.
So, we obviously didn't just build the
game, we also built tools to build the
game as you do. The two things that we
built, one of which is public, the other
one is just on my computer, is one is um
a tool which is basically just a PI
extension that helps you explain to a
kid what's going on. Experiences are
mixed. Turns out kids don't really care.
They just want the game.
But uh the other one that we did was a
extension to pi which is kind of funny
because like you I think you build a
very similar one but the one we called
is called pi draw where if you hit a
command uh command like a command was
called hotkey in pi it opens up tl draw
in the browser you can draw into it and
then you can press a button to send the
picture back to pi pretty
straightforward. I have another one
where I can take a picture on my phone
and then send it to pi but that turned
out to be really really helpful for this
project. So that that has been my
sidekick and I will link it in the show
notes because it's very addictive while
we build.
>> I want to make a comment which is a lot
of people are building on some
interesting primitives right now. I'm
going to highlight TLR. I'm seeing a lot
of TLR projects. Pier diffs. I have a
project on PR diffs. I'm seeing it pop
up all over the place. Uh I was using
conductor today and I hadn't used it in
a while and I saw that PR diffs are in
there too. That's you know if you want
diffs PR diffs term draw. So I built
this thing term draw and actually this
has been a project that's been going
back maybe like six or seven weeks
because I as I was experimenting with PI
extensions for the very first time
probably I struggle with agents when I'm
like no just move it over here right no
I why are you do put it over here and I
I would frequently
you know instead of going back and forth
10 times I would actually draw out ASI
like in the prompt input area Right.
Literally space it out. Dash
uh you know I I know what characters
help it the box look a little good. So
and I'm like why am I doing this? So
that that was that pi extension which I
think I also called pi draw or just uh I
should have taken the should have taken
that npm name space. However, it had
problems which is like it was just
basically drawing it was drawing. Sorry
it's a it's a drawing in asy on the
terminal. So you can use it over SSH,
you can use it over, you know, in ghost
and it turn whatever. At some point I
just had this idea which is like why
can't we have this like illustrator
concept or like um you know more of like
a Figma in the in the terminal and so I
started experimenting with drawing boxes
and turning those into objects and being
able to drag them around. Um it has
grouping. It has like you can resize
things. Um, grouping meaning that you
can like draw a box and put a box in
that and you can drag it around. And I
and I use this to communicate with the
agent like, "Hey, I want the layout this
way or I'd like I would like the, you
know, the toast to be over here or or
the clothes component over here." I put
out a video of this. People thought it
was neat. A question I got a lot of was
like, "Oh, does the can the agent read
like these asky diagrams?"
>> Somewhat.
>> Oh, I think that they can.
>> No, I think they're pretty good at it.
But you know what I did? It's going to
be so stupid. I took pictures of the asy
drawing and I was comparing to how good
it did with the ask drawing.
>> I meant to do that. Yeah. Yeah. So,
how'd it come up?
>> It does better on a picture, which is so
stupid.
>> But how much tokens did that take?
>> I actually don't know.
>> It's a lot more. Yeah.
>> I think it would work slightly better if
you would pick something else than
braille characters is my guess.
>> Oh, that was an exper Yeah, that was an
experiment. I did a lot of experimenting
on like how I could make the smoothest
lines and braille characters visually
does that but there is there's multiple
line modes and yeah it's I did
experiment with like does the agent
understand it? Yeah, but it also makes a
comment of like these are braille
characters.
[laughter]
>> So you you no longer have so should it
update you no longer use bra characters.
Is that what I'm
>> uh maybe I'll if if it's not Yeah, maybe
I'll get rid of it. I I maybe got a
little bit obsessed with sort of
aesthetically pleasing uh things. But
anyways, check it out. I do want to make
a comment by the way because I've been
doing so much kind of asy art and I was
doing um my AIA engineer talk was
actually done over the terminal. So I
was using presenter term. I was I was
going all terminal but I was generating
asy art for that. Opus 47 actually makes
significantly better asy diagrams than
46. This is just sort of a discovery.
It's not scientific, but just the number
like the the some of the characters it
was bringing in. I'm bringing this up
because I was I was literally in the act
of generating a lot of kind of asky
diagrams for my presentation and then 47
came out and I was still generating them
and and so I had this kind of like
backto-back comparison. Does that make
sense?
>> Yeah.
>> Um so just a a a random discovery. I
would there somebody has put together an
asky bench but it's out of date. I I'd
love to, you know, if I had actual time
about to do that again. Any closing
predictions?
>> Um, I wanted to predict where we think
the moat of some companies is going to
be.
>> You got quiet there. The moat of some
companies are going to be.
>> So, basically, I'm going to te my
thinking up here. Um, you already
mentioned TL Draw, right? As a sort of
like an example of a company that
exists. I think one of the reasons TL
Draw is able to sort of monetize itself
right now is like they have good data. I
think a lot of people that sit on good
data have found ways to monetize it in
one form or another. Some of the
conversations that I had over the last 3
months or so has been, "Oh, by the way,
we are a big model training lab. We want
to train blah blah blah. Where are the
places where you can get it?" Um, I know
of a meeting recording company that had
a lot of transcripts that sold the
transcripts because it's good training
data. But I'm going with this a little
bit is like will we see more of it and
or and actually the core question like
will people get upset with all the data
selling that's going on right now to
metal companies because I think it's
it's gradually moving from oh we're just
like there's just like public books and
Wikipedia to usage data from all kinds
of platform from the last couple of
years. that's sort of sort of open but
not really open is now being traded like
gold.
>> And I guess there's like recent public
examples of companies kind of like
finding other ways to ask for the
consent to add your data, right?
>> I I actually don't know to which degree
does this sort of like publicly
understood at this point, but I but I
know this I I know some transactions
have already taken place.
>> The whole like this almost feels like
the end consequence of we never solved
EU EULA's as a society. You see where
I'm going with that? Which is just we
just turned into
>> So that you opted into becoming the um
what was it called? The human centipede
because you have bought something on
iTunes.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Go Google that folks. I'm not going to
speak more on that. But just like we we
became blind to license agreements,
right? And so you know just click give
me the thing you want.
>> I guess there's a question like one of
which is the license agreement. The
other one is sort of like what's
societally acceptable. In a way, it
feels like we got so used to it taking
place right now that like nobody would
care anymore. In between the last
recording and this recording, Microsoft
has started to train on GitHub data more
than they did before. And it was like
half a day of outrage. [laughter]
It wasn't more than that, right? Did you
opt out of your data? Like did you go to
your account settings and try to find
the button where you opt out of
training?
>> Probably not. So like I feel like two
years, three years ago there would have
been a big outrage, right? And now it's
sort of like, oh yeah, of course it's
happening.
>> I guess we should also comment if people
aren't like that familiar with us.
Probably not that familiar with me. But
you know, one I'm pretty sure centuries
is explicit optin consent for data. This
was a big topic internally. That's still
been true.
>> No cookies.
>> You Yeah, no cookies. Look, you know,
Sentry open source.
We have thoughts. We have feelings on
this. I'd also add that a bunch of us
worked for worked for Discuss, right?
David and I did and Chris.
>> I almost did.
>> Yeah, that's a story for another time.
You're always you're always in the W.
You're always in the way. [laughter] You
know, Discuss like we worked on that
because we were nerds. We like like
Discuss is embedded comments. Honestly,
a bunch of us all had static websites
and we liked having comments on our
website because the internet was a
better place at the time, you know, and
it was fun to work on that. And as we I
guess this is like even tying it to the
theme. Well, Discuss sold to a data
broker for I don't know 70 90 million
years ago. And that was really upsetting
to me. That was really upsetting to me,
you know, because this really does tie
into what we talked about earlier
because I kind of signed up to build a
product, you know, that ostensibly kind
of like gave value to people, gave value
to me. People, it had a ton of users. At
the end of the day, the most material
value of that product was the data. And
so there it went, you know, and I I
worked on that for four years. I just
didn't even see that kind of like
outcome. And that's what it was. And it
kind of made me upset, you know, not
it's sort of like I'm not upset
necessarily at the founders, right? Like
I'm not to me I I'm a weird guy. I'm
like they have a fiduciary duty, you
know, like I I I understand that. It's
just sort of a I guess a cynical
consequence of that. Sorry, this is
getting a little emotional, but um but
at the time I think it mattered for a
lot of us, right? It's like and it I
think it mattered for people just
generally. I remember when like 2 3
years after the acquisition of discuss
like like people slowly started figuring
out like oh this this is sort of
happening and I remember like when you
had I think we also showed like ads at
one point in the in the in the embedded
widget and stuff.
>> Yeah, we did we were experimenting with
how do you make this function? So look
to answer your prediction I think that
society has demonstrated that as long as
they get enough value they really don't
they don't they don't care. AI is a
great example of that.
>> I'm not sure. Yeah,
>> I'm not sure if it's so simple.
Obviously, to some degree, you're right.
It's like for as long as like we're all
getting something out of it, like
seemingly we're okay with a whole bunch
of stuff.
>> Mhm.
>> But it's not without
people in the mix that are in sort of in
a position of power also getting some
major push back in one form or another.
Clearly, right now with the companies,
for instance, like someone just threw a
firebomb at Sam Alman's house, right?
So, so it's like there's there's there's
a there's a certain extreme kind of
counter movement that's going to happen
if companies continue to be
irresponsible, right? And GDPR happened
largely as a result of of like companies
doing a whole bunch of stupid stuff. And
there were a lot of really engaged
people lobbying for
like consent dialogues and and the
cookie law and stuff like this. They
didn't happen because like a bunch of
people bureaucrats in Brussels were like
you know what we really want we want
consent dialogues like that that came
out of like people being super upset
with data leaks and stuff like this and
they sort of
create this lobbing and I think like
right now what's happened with AI a
bunch of really scary [__] is going to
happen because we already talked about
security thingy but like I have already
seen like some really bad things in the
last 3 months of data being publicly
accessible.
because some young founders
vibe coded together some [__] and then
other people are just putting the data
into it. The level of irresponsibility
that's going on right now seems on
another level compared to what was there
15 years ago. I I don't remember it
being as bad.
>> Oh, I totally agree. Yeah, I totally
agree. I think one thing that our
experience lets us have is it lets us
give a pulse check on like, well, how
was this versus before? And yeah, I
agree. A good example is like a company
like Delve or like whatever happened
there, you know, that didn't really
happen, you know, and u we went through
so at century I worked on that years
ago. Boy, that was painful. Incredibly
painful. You know, some things should be
painful. I guess is where I'm going with
this and I think it probably connects
back to your talk. AI sometimes makes
things too easy and there's value in the
pain. And uh are we going to learn from
that?
>> Well, I think we're going but I don't
know. I I feel like I learned I'm an old
man at this point. I feel like I learned
my lessons, but I I think like a lot of
these young founders are also going to
learn this in some painful ways. And
look, it's not like the last cycle was
so great. I mean, like Theronos was in
there, [laughter]
FDX was in there, right? Like people
went to prison. Um so people will go to
prison again. Um, presumably like
eventually the damage that some of these
companies are going to cause is just
going to be too great. Um,
>> I you know what? I'm not going to give
you the answer. I'm going to but I'm
going to give you what I want. I want it
to change. I want it to go the other
way. All right. I'd like things to be
Yeah. a little slower. And I would love
that we didn't have like when we click
accept on something. I'd love that to
be, you know, you know what, you get
2,000 charact something like that. I'd
love for that. And if you're training
the data or whatever, like if you're
training on your data, like it's very
visible and apparent when you sign up
that that's gonna happen. Like I really
do want that.
>> But right now, my prediction is we're
going to figure out that some b some a
bunch of older companies are going to
figure out that they are sitting on a
treasure trove and they're going to find
out that there are some companies right
now which are giving ridiculous sums of
money for that treasure trove and
they're going to not be able to resist.
I'm trying to think of like what what is
an industry we're going to hear about
like a rental car company just announces
that they're going to ann they're going
to give their like fleet fleet data to
open AI and you're like why would they
do that and you're like oh no
>> but the thing is like the rental car
companies I it's like Strava rental cars
like okay like feels it feels like that
sort of like I don't know it's like
maybe I'm too cynical like this feels
like okay
>> I was trying to think of something like
uh that's not it's not a great example
just trying to think of something boring
that actually, you know, has some once
you realize it goes into AI has some
sinister like ramifications.
>> Actually, like geoccation data is
actually pretty scary. I mean, do they
remember this story for just recent
where like the uh the French aircraft
carrier got sort of like spotted because
someone was running in circles in Straa,
whatever it was, right? Like like if you
if you had a data point that's in the
middle of nowhere, it's revealing. Yeah.
I don't I just don't like people selling
data for training with little disclosure
and but the problem is people don't like
to sh if you ask people for permission
they will say no [laughter] and then you
don't have enough data right so that we
already know that so the trick is like
how do you cheat people into sharing the
data so that they don't know
>> maybe I want to close on this because
when we've been talking for a while and
I you know Armen I love talking to you
and I could talk for hours and sometimes
we do here's what I I hope I really do
hope principled
you know people get their day again. I
hope that you know people that conduct
business in a straightforward way that
is like hey I'm going to give you value
for this service and this product and I
hope to solve your problems and there's
no shenanigans. Not to glaze David here
but I do think David Kramer is one of
these people. Eats me up inside. Never I
hope you never I hope you never hear
this. There are others and I I wish that
they kind of had, you know, like I wish
that that was rewarded more, you know,
right now it doesn't feel like there's
enough penalty for doing the bad thing.
And so I guess if there's a prediction I
like I want it. I do want, you know, if
you're really cheating on the practices,
whether that's compliance or, you know,
just like not doing fundamental software
engineering, you know, stuff. I don't
mind that there's a little punishment. I
don't mind there's a little blowback
because I guess it's like for us who,
you know, I don't know, I feel I
practice those things like I I want I
want that work. I want the slow,
painful, hard work to be rewarded, not
not the [__]
>> Yeah. I I hope the same and I think like
I like this is me pitching Arendel a
little bit here but like I really hope
that we manage to find a way at least
with PI but I also hope with Leos where
you actually retain the data with you
and we we we managed to create an
environment where there is a choice of
models and there is like a very explicit
sort of data sharing thing going on
because
there's also I think there's a a lot of
opportunity in theory right now that
we're commoditizing the hell out of
these models and everybody ends up being
better.
I think in a long run open source
software kind of tends to win because
it's just it it it it makes it too hard
for other people to compete in the space
and I hope that's going to be true for
LM as well. Like my my my ideal outcome
in a couple of years is like copyrights
are worth a lot less and we all have
powerful LLMs to help with legendic
tasks and we can run them where we are
and not in in in Sam Alman's cloud.
>> Maybe a good just to bring it even back
to GitHub. The fact that anybody can
leave GitHub is because Git is open
source. Well, should we close it there?
>> Yeah, this took longer than last time.
>> I hope it's coherent in the end. We'll
find out.
>> [laughter]
>> All right.
>> All right. Thanks everybody.